This video will look at the syntax for declaring an initialising a race.
The syntax for an array declaration is very simple.
First we write the type of each element in the array.
This is followed by the name of the array variable.
Then we provide square brackets which is the array indexing operator and then the square brackets.
We provide the size that we want the array to be.
Remember this size is fixed so the compiler must know the size of whatever in the square brackets at
compile time.
So this can be a constant literal.
It can be a declared constant or constant expression.
In the first example we're declaring an array named.
Test scores of five integers.
The second example declares an array named high scores per level of 10 integers.
And the third example declares an array named high temperatures of 365 doubles.
Notice that days and years are declared constant so the compiler knows its value.
Also note that in all three cases the arrays have not been initialized.
This means that the contents of the array elements could be anything.
Best practice is to always initialize arrays when you declared them.
Let's see how we can do that.
We can also initialize raise when we declare them and it's good practice to do so.
The syntax is similar to when we initialize primitive variables.
We include an initialization list after the declaration and this list we can provide as many initial
errors just as we like.
Separated by commas in the first example.
Test scores is initialized to 100 95.
99 97 and 88 the initialization works as you would expect.
The test scores array element at index 0 is initialized to 100.
The element at index 1 to 95 and so on.
In the second example you see that we declared an array named high scores per level of 10 integers but
we only provided two values in the initializer list 3 and 5.
In this case the first two elements of the array are initialized at 3 and 5 respectively and the remaining
8 array elements will be initialized to zero.
In the third example all of the elements of the array high temperatures are initialized to zero.
This is a very handy initialiser that's used very often.
The final example is a little bit different.
In this case I didn't provide any number for the size of the array inside the square brackets.
Instead I'm letting the compiler determine the size of the array based on the number of elements in
the initializer list.
This form is also often seen in this case.
Another array will be of size 5 integers and they'll each be initialized from 1 to 5.
As you can see the syntax for declaring and initializing arrays is very straight forward in the next
video will look at the syntax for accessing individual array elements.